Add How DNS Templates Work explanation article (#2057)
dnsimple/dnsimple-support: content/articles/how-dns-templates-work.md

---
title: How DNS Templates Work
excerpt: What a DNS template is, what happens when you apply one, and how templates relate to one-click services.
meta: A DNSimple template is a reusable group of DNS records you apply to any domain. Applying it adds records without overwriting existing ones.
categories:
- Templates
---

# How DNS Templates Work

### Table of Contents {#toc}

* TOC
{:toc}

---

A DNS template is a named, reusable group of DNS records stored on your account. Applying a template to a domain creates those records in the domain's zone. It does not remove or overwrite records that are already there.

For the steps to create and apply one, see [How to Use Templates](/articles/templates/).

## What a template contains {#contents}

A template has a name, a short identifier that is unique within your account, and any number of DNS records. There is no limit on how many records a template can hold, and the records can be of any type the [record editor](/articles/record-editor/) supports.

Templates belong to the account rather than to a domain, so one template can be applied to as many domains as you like.

## Who can use templates {#permissions}

> Templates are managed at the account level. The <label>Templates</label> tab appears in the header only for users who can manage the account. A member with domain-level access can work with a domain's records directly but will not see the Templates tab at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <label>Templates</label> tab is for creating and editing templates. It appears in the header only for users who can manage the account. A member with domain-level access will not see that tab.
Applying a template is separate. A member who can manage a domain's DNS can still [apply an existing template](/articles/templates/#apply) even if they cannot create or edit templates.
```

## What happens when you apply a template {#applying}

Applying a template adds each of the template's records to the target zone. Two things follow from that:

- **Existing records are left alone.** A template never deletes or replaces a record that is already in the zone.
- **The application is recorded.** A zone keeps track of which templates have been applied to it.

> A template can be applied to a zone or to a domain.

Author: ```suggestion
```
